# Software Product Specification (SPS)

## 1. Scope

### 1.1 Identification

**SPS-001: Document Identification** - The document **shall** be
identified by the following information: - **Document Name**: \[Document
Name\] - **Document Identifier**: \[SPS-001\] - **Version**: 1.0 -
**Classification**: \[Unclassified/Classified Level\]

### 1.2 Document Overview

**SPS-002: Document Purpose** - The document **shall** specify the
software product characteristics and capabilities - The document
**shall** define product features and functionality - The document
**shall** describe product performance and quality attributes

## 2. Referenced Documents

**SPS-003: Referenced Standards** - MIL-STD-498: Software Development
and Documentation - \[Other applicable standards\]

## 3. Product Overview

**SPS-004: Product Description** - The document **shall** provide a
comprehensive product description - The document **shall** specify
product purpose and objectives - The document **shall** describe product
scope and boundaries

## 4. Product Features

### 4.1 Functional Features

**SPS-005: Functional Capabilities** - The document **shall** describe
all functional features and capabilities - The document **shall**
specify feature requirements and specifications - The document **shall**
define feature interactions and dependencies

### 4.2 Non-Functional Features

**SPS-006: Quality Attributes** - The document **shall** specify
performance requirements - The document **shall** describe reliability
and availability features - The document **shall** define security and
safety features

## 5. Product Architecture

**SPS-007: Architecture Description** - The document **shall** describe
the product architecture - The document **shall** specify component
structure and relationships - The document **shall** define interface
specifications

## 6. Product Interfaces

**SPS-008: Interface Specifications** - The document **shall** describe
user interfaces - The document **shall** specify external system
interfaces - The document **shall** define data interfaces and formats

## 7. Product Performance

**SPS-009: Performance Specifications** - The document **shall** specify
performance requirements and metrics - The document **shall** describe
performance characteristics - The document **shall** define performance
testing criteria

## 8. Product Quality

**SPS-010: Quality Specifications** - The document **shall** specify
quality requirements and standards - The document **shall** describe
quality assurance measures - The document **shall** define quality
testing and validation procedures

## 9. Product Constraints

**SPS-011: Constraint Specifications** - The document **shall** specify
technical constraints and limitations - The document **shall** describe
operational constraints - The document **shall** define regulatory and
compliance requirements

## 10. Notes

-   **SPS**: Software Product Specification
-   **Product**: Software system or application
