# Operator Control Document (OCD)

## 1. Scope

### 1.1 Identification

**OCD-001: Document Identification** - The document **shall** be
identified by the following information: - **Document Name**: \[Document
Name\] - **Document Identifier**: \[OCD-001\] - **Version**: 1.0 -
**Classification**: \[Unclassified/Classified Level\]

### 1.2 Document Overview

**OCD-002: Document Purpose** - The document **shall** describe operator
control procedures and responsibilities - The document **shall** define
system operation guidelines - The document **shall** specify operator
training and qualification requirements

## 2. Referenced Documents

**OCD-003: Referenced Standards** - MIL-STD-498: Software Development
and Documentation - \[Other applicable standards\]

## 3. System Overview

**OCD-004: System Description** - The document **shall** provide an
overview of the system under operator control - The document **shall**
describe system capabilities and limitations - The document **shall**
specify operational modes and states

## 4. Operator Responsibilities

**OCD-005: Role Definition** - The document **shall** define operator
roles and responsibilities - The document **shall** specify operator
authority levels - The document **shall** describe operator
decision-making processes

## 5. Control Procedures

### 5.1 Normal Operations

**OCD-006: Standard Procedures** - The document **shall** describe
normal operational procedures - The document **shall** specify routine
monitoring and control activities - The document **shall** define
standard operating parameters

### 5.2 Emergency Procedures

**OCD-007: Emergency Response** - The document **shall** describe
emergency response procedures - The document **shall** specify emergency
shutdown procedures - The document **shall** define escalation and
notification procedures

### 5.3 Maintenance Operations

**OCD-008: Maintenance Support** - The document **shall** describe
operator support for maintenance activities - The document **shall**
specify maintenance mode operations - The document **shall** define
operator-maintenance coordination procedures

## 6. Training and Qualification

**OCD-009: Operator Training** - The document **shall** specify operator
training requirements - The document **shall** define qualification
criteria - The document **shall** describe certification and
recertification procedures

## 7. Safety and Security

**OCD-010: Safety Procedures** - The document **shall** describe safety
procedures and precautions - The document **shall** specify security
protocols and access controls - The document **shall** define incident
reporting procedures

## 8. Notes

-   **OCD**: Operator Control Document
-   **Operator**: Personnel responsible for system operation
